Abstract (which should be 400 words at most) : 

One of the critical issues of the students' learning process relies in assessing knowledge and skills. Many higher-education institutions have developed an active pedagogy that gives students a central role in their formation. This means students have numerous lab works and personal projects to fulfill. It is thus crucial that teachers get tools to efficiently manage and assess student papers. MarkUs is an open-source web application that meet these expectations. MarkUs aims at facilitating the assessment of students’ works. Students do not need anymore to print their report or to send it by mail to their teachers : all these steps are managed via MarkUs, which recreates the ease and flexibility of grading assignments with pen on paper. MarkUs was created and developed at University of Toronto (UoT), Canada. Since summer 2009, students at École Centrale de Nantes (ECN) have joined the MarkUs development team. In use at UoT, University of Waterloo (Canada) and ECN, MarkUs allows to assess the work of cohorts of nearly 1000 students. The software has two main advantages : it manages automatically in a unique database all students’ papers, and teachers can annotate them on-line. These features have led to very positive pedagogical outcomes : the number of works submitted after the deadline has decreased, the assessment time has been drastically reduced, students can access immediately to projects they have been assigned to and check the notes from their teacher, … In this paper, we introduce Markus’ features, and illustrate their potential assets for higher education through our own feedback. We will not only provide an overview of current uses and future but also put the emphasis on the benefit taken from the fact that such a tool is open-source (allowing students to work and improve the code). Virtuous circles indeed arise, with former users of MarkUs becoming developers then supervisors for further works. We will conclude by drawing perspectives about forthcoming features and use, both technically and pedagogically. 