================================================================================
Git How To
================================================================================

.. contents::


Github Things
================================================================================

- Open a github account
- Ask an admin to add you as a MarkUs developer
- Fork the MarkUsProject/MarkUs repository
- Clone your fork (it should be namespaced like: <your-github-user>/MarkUs) onto your machine. This is the repository you should be working on. Make sure you use the read+write URL Github shows you. 

Coding
================================================================================
- For each feature/bug, create a branch. To do this, make sure you are on branch ``master``. You can check which branch you are on by ``git status``. Then create the new branch by ``git branch <branch-name>``. This creates a branch, which is based on ``master``, since you've been on ``master`` at the time you've created the branch. Yay!
- Checkout the branch ``git checkout <branch-name>``.
- Code.
- Commit your code (see git's documentation) (and push it if you want to your personal MarkUs fork)
- Generate diff for code review: `git diff master <branch-name> > name.patch``

ReviewBoard
================================================================================

- Post diff on ReviewBoard
- Once you have one or more ship it

  - Push code to your github repository
  - Ask for a pull request
  - Wait for a nice administrator to merge your code :-)

Git Tricks
================================================================================
- Once your pull request have been merged to main MarkUs, you can delete branches (this is entirely optional): 

  - ``git branch -d <your-branch>`` will delete the branch locally
  - ``git push origin :<your-branch>`` will delete the branch on your personal fork on Github (Note the colon).
