1. Describe your organization.

MarkUs is a Ruby on Rails application for grading student assignments.  The goal of the project is to make it easy for graders to give high quality feedback to students. Students form groups, submit their assignments, and receive their results and feedback using MarkUs. Instructors map graders to students, manage assignments, due dates and penalties, view the progress of the graders, and release results to the students. Graders annotate students code, fill in rubrics and keep track of their work.

We have been working on MarkUs since August 2008, but MarkUs grew out of another online grading tool OLM that had been in development and use since 2004. MarkUs is used in Computer Science and Engineering courses in three universities: University of Toronto, University of Waterloo, and Ecole Centrale de Nantes. It is internationalized with French and English language support. Accessibility has been another goal, and we have received approval from an instructor who used a screen reader to make us of MarkUs.

Although MarkUs began as a project developed entirely by undergraduate students either as part time project students, or full time funded by a grant, it has grown into a full-fledged open source project. There are currently 47 people on the developers mailing list, and a core group of developers who manage releases, review submitted code, and mentor new developers.  We have also had three industry advisors, Mike Gunderloy, Adam Goucher, and Blake Winton who have help us both in refining our development process and with technical issues.  


2. Why is your organization applying to participate in Google Summer of Code 2011? What do you hope to gain by participating?

We have a history of working with students in an open source environment, and our project has reached a level of maturity where we have a core group of developers, a clear development and review process, and substantial experience mentoring newcomers to the project. MarkUs is now at a stage where students will learn good open source practices, and will be able to contribute to the project.

3. Did your organization participate in past Google Summer of Codes? If so, please summarize your involvement and the successes and challenges of your participation.

MarkUs has not participated in past Google Summer of Codes, but a number of our developers and administrators have been involved both as students and mentors for different organizations.

4. If your organization has not previously participated in Google Summer of Code, have you applied in the past? If so, for what year(s)?

We have not applied in the past.

5. What license(s) does your project use?

MIT

6.What is the URL for your Ideas page?

7. What is the main development mailing list for your organization?
What is the main IRC channel for your organization?

The main development mailing list is markus-dev@cs.toronto.edu. We use also use channel #markus on irc.freenode.net.

8. Does your organization have an application template you would like to see students use? If so, please provide it now.

We would ask applicants to use the following application template: [[GsocApplicationTemplate]]

9. Who will be your backup organization administrator?

10. What criteria did you use to select these individuals as mentors? Please be as specific as possible.

All the people who have agreed to be mentors have had experience mentoring students in different capacities. 

11. What is your plan for dealing with disappearing students?

12. What is your plan for dealing with disappearing mentors?

Three core developers have committed to mentor GSoC Students for MarkUs. If one of them is unavailable, the other two mentors will step in. Moreover, we've assured for a fourth mentor to step in if need be.

13. What steps will you take to encourage students to interact with your project's community before, during and after the program?

Our experience showed that students have their best development experience if they have at least completed their basic MarkUs development setup before the start date. We usually get in touch with students as soon as we have their contact information. Communication in general is done via email, our mailing list or the MarkUs IRC channel.

In order to keep students engaged, we try to get back to them on a regular bases and make sure that students will get matched up with projects in which they are most interested in. We try hard to keep our community welcoming and supportive. 

14. What will you do to ensure that your accepted students stick with the project after Google Summer of Code concludes?

We are always at the lookout for new core developers and regular contributors. Depending on the knowledge of the student and his or her aptitudes there are various roles a new developer of MarkUs could play. It will depend on the individual student, but we'll ensure to get back to them on a regular basis, be open for new ideas and try to connect as a community.
